
+++
title = "The UCSC Cancer Genomics Browser: update 2013."
date = 2013-01-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Mary Goldman","Brian Craft","Teresa Swatloski","Kyle Ellrott","Melissa Cline","Mark Diekhans","Singer Ma","Chris Wilks","Josh Stuart","David Haussler","Jingchun Zhu"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The UCSC Cancer Genomics Browser (https://genome-cancer.ucsc.edu/) is a set of web-based tools to display, investigate and analyse cancer genomics data and its associated clinical information. The browser provides whole-genome to base-pair level views of several different types of genomics data, including some next-generation sequencing platforms. The ability to view multiple datasets together allows users to make comparisons across different data and cancer types. Biological pathways, collections of genes, genomic or clinical information can be used to sort, aggregate and zoom into a group of samples. We currently display an expanding set of data from various sources, including 201 datasets from 22 TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) cancers as well as data from Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia and Stand Up To Cancer. New features include a completely redesigned user interface with an interactive tutorial and updated documentation. We have also added data downloads, additional clinical heatmap features, and an updated Tumor Image Browser based on Google Maps. New security features allow authenticated users access to private datasets hosted by several different consortia through the public website."

abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
# image_preview = "/img/mc3.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "#"
url_code = "#"
url_dataset = "#"
url_project = "#"
url_slides = "#"
url_video = "#"
url_poster = "#"
url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "mc3.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

