
+++
title = "Enabling transparent and collaborative computational analysis of 12 tumor types within The Cancer Genome Atlas."
date = 2013-10-01T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Larsson Omberg","Kyle Ellrott","Yuan Yuan","Cyriac Kandoth","Chris Wong","Michael R Kellen","Stephen H Friend","Josh Stuart","Han Liang","Adam A Margolin"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The Cancer Genome Atlas Pan-Cancer Analysis Working Group collaborated on the Synapse software platform to share and evolve data, results and methodologies while performing integrative analysis of molecular profiling data from 12 tumor types. The group's work serves as a pilot case study that provides (i) a template for future large collaborative studies; (ii) a system to support collaborative projects; and (iii) a public resource of highly curated data, results and automated systems for the evaluation of community-developed models."

abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
# image_preview = "/img/mc3.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "#"
url_code = "#"
url_dataset = "#"
url_project = "#"
url_slides = "#"
url_video = "#"
url_poster = "#"
url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "mc3.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

