
+++
title = "Neoepiscope improves neoepitope prediction with multi-variant phasing"
date = 2019-08-19T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Wood MA", "Nguyen A", "Struck A", "Ellrott K", "Nellore A", "Thompson RF"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "MOTIVATION: The vast majority of tools for neoepitope prediction from DNA sequencing of complementary tumor and normal patient samples do not consider germline context or the potential for co-occurrence of two or more somatic variants on the same mRNA transcript. Without consideration of these phenomena, existing approaches are likely to produce both false positive and false negative results, resulting in an inaccurate and incomplete picture of the cancer neoepitope landscape. We developed neoepiscope chiefly to address this issue for single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (indels). RESULTS: Herein, we illustrate how germline and somatic variant phasing affects neoepitope prediction across multiple datasets. We estimate that up to ∼5% of neoepitopes arising from SNVs and indels may require variant phasing for their accurate assessment. neoepiscope is performant, flexible, and supports several major histocompatibility complex binding affinity prediction tools."

abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
# image_preview = "/img/mc3.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "mc3.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
