
+++
title = "Reproducible biomedical benchmarking in the cloud: lessons from crowd-sourced data challenges"
date = 2019-09-10T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Ellrott K", "Buchanan A", "Creason A", "Mason M", "Schaffter T", "Hoff B", "Eddy J", "Chilton JM", "Yu T", "Stuart JM", "Saez-Rodriguez J", "Stolovitzky G", "Boutros PC", "Guinney J"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = ""
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Challenges are achieving broad acceptance for addressing many biomedical questions and enabling tool assessment. But ensuring that the methods evaluated are reproducible and reusable is complicated by the diversity of software architectures, input and output file formats, and computing environments. To mitigate these problems, some challenges have leveraged new virtualization and compute methods, requiring participants to submit cloud-ready software packages. We review recent data challenges with innovative approaches to model reproducibility and data sharing, and outline key lessons for improving quantitative biomedical data analysis through crowd-sourced benchmarking challenges."

abstract_short = ""
# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
# image_preview = "/img/mc3.jpg"

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project in `content/project/`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = "mc3.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
